as spoken by [[King Calixto Fleccia II]].
Men and women of the Most Holy Kingdom of Sancterra, on this fateful day I come to you not as your king and lord but as a man of Sancterra: A man who's family and friends have bled for this land, who's life has been dedicated to naught but the protection and best interests of its proud people. 
On this day we are beset on all sides by those who wish to see our proud nation fall beneath the heels of infidels and heretics. 
Our tradesmen can no longer safely leave their harbours of fear of Kehmaan and Laian ships sinking them and their cargo, hundreds of men, women and children have fallen to this cowardly cannon fire. The land of Sanheito as well as the land that is my own charge are plagued by the attacks of the southern barbarians and our north is marched upon by the combined forces of Carga, and Mixas. Our Western borders are harassed by the Army of the coward Miguel of Sames. 

The otherworldly gate that has been the charge of my family for nigh on 3 centuries offers a solution to this, an easy victory. I confess, the promise of an easy solution to protect my people was and continues to be tempting. But that is not and should not be the way of our country. 
We have had heroes such as Alcides Relto who helped my ancestors, Longuet Olival, who gave her life to fix my mistake last I opened the gate. 
My ancestors who lead reigns that saw our nation expand tenfold and defeated prospectors to the throne such as the great Calixto Fleccia. We are not a land of second measures. We are not a people of weak solutions. We are a proud nation that has shown naught but strength and power since its very founding. 

And so I ask you, the products of this great nation, its greatest strength, the pride of my family, you, people of Sancterra, rise, protect your wives, husbands and children, reach for your blades and your courage, show me the nation my forefathers forged from the steel of their own hearts. Let the light of our courage boil the blood of these infidels in their very bodies, that the elements themselves whisper of our might, that the earth trembles under our boots and the wind howls of our victories. 
Every breeze shall whisper of our heroes. From now every person in these lands may earn their desires, any man may become a lord through their own strength. Show me, my people, that which you can earn without the yoke of your birth right. Rise! Rise my countrymen for I am not this nation! Rise for a nation is it's people! Rise Sancterra!